---
layout: post
title: "Y'all Can Kill That Mockingbird Now"
date: 2014-04-11 21:17:02 -0400
comments: true
categories: L'humeur
---
One of these days Harper Lee is going to kick off and have great big posthumous laugh at our expense. Bwah-hah-hah! Because right there in her Last Notes and Testament, we will find an answer to that puzzlement that has troubled the publishing biz for a half-century or more. 

Namely, why didn't Harper Lee write any more novels after To Kill a Mockingbird?

And the reason she didn't, she will aver in words that are coarse and pithy and possibly witty, is that To Kill a Mockingbird was a phoney-baloney contrived piece of shit. It wasn't her novel anymore, not after her agent and publishers and publicists got through with tweaking the bejesus out of it, and filling it up with their political agenda and their ideas of "salability."

Well, they certainly made it salable. It was on the bestseller list for about two years, and thanks to the sponsorship of Gregory Peck it became a guaranteed hit movie even before a screenplay was written. 

Trouble was, the novel was dishonest. It wasn't the book Nelle Harper Lee initially wrote, a picturesque set of reminiscences about childhood and long summers in small-town Alabama in the mid-1930s. No, the agent and publishers and publicists had to muck it up and make it somehow "relevant" and "meaningful" to the America of the 1950s and 60s, with particular attention to issues of race and "civil rights" and "prejudice" in the South. So they stuffed the book full of Noble Negroes. And as a centerpiece, they inserted an interracial rape case, which had many faint echoes of various black-on-white rape cases of the 1930s, 40s, and 50s. 

When the book was selling like hotcakes in the early 60s, its most penetrating criticism came from Flannery O'Connor. "What people don't seem to realize is that it's a children's book!" Indeed it was; the glued-on subplot about the interracial rape takes up less than a third of the book. The rest of it is about playing games with the exotic visitor from New Orleans, Dill (Truman Capote), shooting airguns, making snowmen, and putting up with the mean-and-crazy morphine-addicted Civil War widow down the street, Mrs. Dubose.

The novel has been used as a set text for many primary and secondary schools. Often, when it is taught, the lesson plan says that the novel is a fictionalized version of many racial rape cases.

Some scholars and critics have put out arguments that the Tom Robinson character is based on the Scottsboro Boys, a point difficult to support. More interesting is Patrick Chiarra's notion that it is really about Emmett Till, who much in public consciousness in the mid and late 50s. Chiarra says that Emmett was like Tom because he was outspoken but innocent. And he was crippled. Thirty-something Tom had a withered arm, 14-going-on-15 Emmett Till had a ... stammer.

Actually the Tom Robinson character has no prototype in reality. The closest real-life news story that resembles the Tom Robinson character is that of Willie McGee. Willie McGee was a black man who was accused of rape of a (middle-class) white woman in the late 1940s. McGee's Communist-funded lawyers argued that in fact Willie McGee and the white woman had been lovers, carrying on an affair for some time, until the woman suddenly became embarrassed and accused McGee of rape.

The Willie McGee case was a cause celebre for the Communist Party USA in the late 1940s and early 1950 